# How To Make New Simulation Scenario

## 1.  Overview

- In the [Getting Started](./GettingStarted.md) tutorial, we can directly build and execute `s2e-core`, but for **source code sharing** and practical usage of S2E, we **strongly recommend managing s2e-core and s2e-user repository separately**.
  - [s2e-core](https://github.com/ut-issl/s2e-core) repository is shared with other users. Most of the source files are in this core repository. The codes are used as a library by the `s2e-user` repository.
  - `s2e-user` repository is an independent repository  for **each spacecraft project or research project**. This repository includes the following parts:
    - Source codes for the `main`
    - Source codes for `simulation scenario`
    - Source codes for `components` if the target spacecraft has components, which strongly depends on your project.
    - `Initialize files`
    - `Compile setting` files as [CMake files](https://cmake.org/), [Visual Studio Solution files](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/), or others. 
- This tutorial explains an example of how to make `s2e-user` repository and execute it.   
- The supported version of this document
  - Please confirm that the version of the documents and `s2e-core` is compatible.


## 2. Structure of S2E-USER directory
   - We provides a sample of a s2e-user repository as [s2e-user-example](https://github.com/ut-issl/s2e-user-example).
   - The repository is constructed as follows.
     - The repository includes `s2e-core` by using `git submodule` feature.
     - The `ExtLibraries` for the user side repository should be generated by using the `CMake` files in the `s2e-core`.

     ```
     └─ s2e-user-example
        └─ src
        └─ data
        └─ s2e-core (git submodule)
        └─ ExtLibraries (generated by the following procedure)
        └─ other files
     ```

## 3. Setup s2e-user-example

1. Clone [s2e-user-example](https://github.com/ut-issl/s2e-user-example) repository in a working directory. 
   - Because the repository includes [s2e-core](https://github.com/ut-issl/s2e-core) with the `git submodule`, please use the following commands to construct the directory.
     ```
     $ git clone git@github.com:ut-issl/s2e-user-example.git
     $ cd s2e-user-example/
     $ git submodule init
     $ git submodule update
     ```
     Or use the following command to clone the repository.
     ```
     $ git clone --recursive git@github.com:ut-issl/s2e-user-example.git
     ```

2. Download mandatory `ExtLibraries` (CSPICE and NRLMSISE-00).
   - Users need to use the `CMakeList.txt` in the `s2e-user-example/s2e-core/ExtLibraries` to download the mandatory external libraries.
   - The construction procedure is same with the s2e-core. Please see a `How To Build` document suit with your platform.
     ```
     └─ s2e-user-example
        └─ src
        └─ data
        └─ s2e-core (git submodule)
          └─ ExtLibraries
            └─ CMakeLists.txt (Use this file in this step)
        └─ ExtLibraries (This directory is generated by this step)
          └─ cspice
          └─ GeoPotential 
          └─ nrlmsise00
     ```

3. According to the `How To Build` document, use the `s2e-user-example/CMakeList.txt` and build the s2e-user.

4. Execute and check the `s2e-user/data/logs`.

5. Similar to [Getting Started](./GettingStarted.md), you can edit initialize files in `s2e-user-example/data/initialize_files` and check the log file.

**Note:** Users can use other characters instead of `user` for a practical case.  For example, you can name it `s2e_equuleus` to indicate the EQUULEUS spacecraft project. 


## 4.  Overview of S2E-USER-EXAMPLE

- This chapter explains the overview of the `main` branch of the `s2e-user-example`.
- The files in the directory are as follows. From here, the detail of each file is described.
  ```
  └─ s2e-user-example
    └─ CMakeLists.txt  
    └─ CMakeSetting.json  
    └─ data  
      └─ initialize_files
      └─ logs
    └─ src  
      └─ simulation
        └─ case
          └─ user_case.cpp
          └─ user_case.hpp
        └─ Spacecraft
          └─ user_components.cpp  
          └─ user_components.hpp
          └─ user_satellite.cpp
          └─ user_satellite.hpp
      └─ s2e_user.cpp
    └─ s2e-core (git submodule)  
  ```

1. `CMakeLists.txt` and `CMakeSetting.json`
   - `CMakeLists.txt` is a [CMake file](https://cmake.org/) for a compile setting.
     - Details of description rules for CMake files can be searched on the internet, so please refer to them.
     - When you add new source files, the new files is automatically included as the build target. If you do not include them, please add them to excluding list in the `CMakeList.txt`.
   - `CMakeSetting.json ` is a compile setting file for Visual Studio.

2. `data/initialize_files` and `data/logs`
   - In the `initialize_files` directory, there are several initialize files.
     - The most important initialize file is `user_simulation_base.ini`.
     - Other initialize files are defined in this base initialize file. So you need to edit the file names in the base file when you modify the name of other initialize files.
       - When you change the name of the base file, you have to edit `s2e_user.cpp`.
     - Details of the initialize files are described in `Specifications`.
       - Basic files are described in [Getting Started](./GettingStarted.md).
   - `logs`
     - CSV log files will be outputted here. The output directory is also defined in `user_simulation_base.ini`, so that you can change it.

3. `src/s2e_user.cpp`
   - This is the main file of this program.
   - In this code, `user_simulation_base.ini` is defined as the base file for the simulation, and an instance of the `SimulationCase` class named `UserCase` is created and initialized. And finally, the main routine of the class is executed.

4. `src/simulation/case/user_case.cpp, .hpp`
   - `UserCase` class is defined here. `UserCase` class inherits the `SimulationCase` base class in the `s2e-core`. The `SimulationCase` class has a `SimulationConfiguration` and `GlobalEnvironment` class. The `UserCase` class has an instance of the `spacecraft` class named as `UserSatellite`.

5. `src/simulation/spacecraft/user_satellite.cpp, .hpp`
   - `UserSatellite` class is defined here. `UserSatellite` class inherits the `Spacecraft` class in the `s2e-core`. The `Spacecraft` base class has instances of `Dynamics`, `LocalEnvironment`, `Disturbance`, and `Structure`. And the `UserSatellite` class has an instance of `UserComponents`.

6. `src/simulation/spacecraft/user_components.cpp, .hpp`
   - The `UserComponents` class is defined here. Most users edit this code to custom the S2E for their satellite projects.
   - Users select components they want to use from the `s2e-core/src/components`.
   - You can add new source codes in the `s2e-user/components` directory if you want to make original components.
